---
layout: post
title:  "Her's"
date:   2021-01-19 13:03:00 -0500
category: artist-spotlight
author: William Bidle
image: /assets/images/posts/her's.jpg
comments:  true
tags: Her's indie artist-spotlight
---

On the 27th of March, 2019, the world lost two incredibly talented musicians. Stephen Fitzpatrick and Auden Laading were the brainchildren behind the indie sensation, Her’s, and were killed in a head-on car accident in Arizona while on tour for the release of their 2018 album, Invitation to Her’s. Their music never seemed to fall into a single genre, yet they continuously put out tracks that resonated both with their character and their audience. This post serves as a tribute to Fitzpatrick and Laading, and while their deaths meant the end of Her’s, their music and legacy will live on forever.

The duo’s origins go back to their meeting at the Liverpool Institute for the Performing Arts in 2013. Their dive into music started off as members of the rhythm section of a band called The Sundogs. Throughout this experience Fitzpatrick and Laading got close with each other, and began to make comical music videos. The bonds the two developed in this friendship led to an uncommon well developed sense of what they wanted their own band to be and what their sound should be. Eventually the two put out their first single together, “Dorothy,” which kickstarted their first album in 2017, Songs of Her’s.

From the relaxing, sunset vibes of “Cool With You,” to the groovy “She Needs Him,” Her’s really knew how to make consistently good music true to their sound. The bright and melodic guitars, Laading’s impactful bass, and Fitzpatrick’s deep, yet smooth vocals lead to an experience sure to leave you a fan of their music. The band’s true genius shines through in “What Once Was,” an incredibly catchy track that was written when Fitzpatrick was only 21. Throughout the track, Fitzpatrick finds himself longing for the past, only to find it out of his reach and that his dwelling prevents him from really living. This message is even more powerful now after their passing, leaving us to think about what once was the band Her’s.

In addition to their impressive track list, Fitzpatrick and Laading had some incredible chemistry with each other while playing live. Throughout these performances, they can’t help but smile at each other and don’t hide how much fun they have performing. Laading’s goofy dancing and Fitzpatrick’s vocal talent will instantly have you hooked, wishing you could see what else the band could have had in store for the future.

Her’s was truly a special musical experience, managing to mix such a complex style with careless fun and joy. Having only found them a year ago, I am left to dream about what could have been the future of these two talented men. One of the last records of their music was a performance of “Harvey,” posted by the BBC Music YouTube channel on the 26th of March, 2019, the day before their death. With an almost effortless grace, Fitzpatrick and Laading give us one last acoustic serenade. You are missed.

&nbsp;

<center><iframe class = "post-video" width="850" height="450" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/ZOBwqTFWmHA" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe></center>

&nbsp;
